**note:** this page is automatically generated from embedded documentation in the PHP source.

# Overview #

## Constructors ##
  * [Config](#Config.md) - Create a new instance of this class.
## Methods ##
  * [get\_first\_fpmap](#get_first_fpmap.md) - Obtain a reference to the store's field/predicate map.
  * [get\_first\_fpmap\_uri](#get_first_fpmap_uri.md) - Gets the URI of the first field/predicate map in the store.
  * [get\_first\_query\_profile](#get_first_query_profile.md) - Obtain a reference to the store's query profile.
  * [get\_first\_query\_profile\_uri](#get_first_query_profile_uri.md) - Gets the URI of the first query profile in the store.

# Constructor Detail #

## Config ##

```
public Config(mixed uri, mixed credentials, mixed request_factory)
```

Create a new instance of this class.<dl>
<dt>Param:</dt>
<dd>string uri URI of the store config</dd>
<dd>Credentials credentials the credentials to use for authenticated requests (optional)</dd>
</dl>


# Method Detail #

## get\_first\_fpmap ##

```
public void get_first_fpmap()
```

Obtain a reference to the store's field/predicate map. This needs to be subsequently fetched using get\_from\_network<dl>
<dt>Return:</dt>
<dd>FieldPredicateMap</dd>
</dl>


## get\_first\_fpmap\_uri ##

```
public void get_first_fpmap_uri()
```

Gets the URI of the first field/predicate map in the store.
This is much more complicated than first appears since a store
can be configured (by Talis) to hold its field/predicate map
anywhere. This method understands all the existing stores and their
URI layouts.<dl>
<dt>Return:</dt>
<dd>string</dd>
</dl>


## get\_first\_query\_profile ##

```
public void get_first_query_profile()
```

Obtain a reference to the store's query profile. This needs to be subsequently fetched using get\_from\_network<dl>
<dt>Return:</dt>
<dd>QueryProfile</dd>
</dl>


## get\_first\_query\_profile\_uri ##

```
public void get_first_query_profile_uri()
```

Gets the URI of the first query profile in the store.
This is much more complicated than first appears since a store
can be configured (by Talis) to hold its field/predicate map
anywhere. This method understands all the existing stores and their
URI layouts.<dl>
<dt>Return:</dt>
<dd>string</dd>
</dl>




Generated by [PHPDoctor 2RC2](http://phpdoctor.sourceforge.net/)