#sidebar Sidebar
#labels Autogenerated
#summary Represents a changeset.

= Overview =

Represents a changeset. Can be used to create a changeset based on the difference between two bounded descriptions. The descriptions must share the same subject URI.

<dl>
<dt>See Also:</dt>
<dd><a href="http://n2.talis.com/wiki/Changesets">http://n2.talis.com/wiki/Changesets</a></dd>
</dl>
== Constructors ==
 * [#ChangeSet ChangeSet]
== Methods ==
 * [#addT addT] - addT  adds a triple to the internal simpleIndex holding all the changesets and statements
 * [#has_changes has_changes]
 * [#toRDFXML toRDFXML]
 * [#to_rdfxml to_rdfxml] - Serialise the graph to RDF/XML

<table class="inherit">
<tr><th colspan="2">Methods inherited from Moriarty.SimpleGraph</th></tr>
<tr><td><a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_graph()">add_graph</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_json()">add_json</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_labelling_property()">add_labelling_property</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_literal_triple()">add_literal_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_rdf()">add_rdf</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_rdfxml()">add_rdfxml</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_resource_triple()">add_resource_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#add_turtle()">add_turtle</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#diff()">diff</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#from_json()">from_json</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#from_rdfxml()">from_rdfxml</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#from_turtle()">from_turtle</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_description()">get_description</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_first_literal()">get_first_literal</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_first_resource()">get_first_resource</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_index()">get_index</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_label()">get_label</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_literal_triple_values()">get_literal_triple_values</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_prefix()">get_prefix</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_resource_triple_values()">get_resource_triple_values</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subject_properties()">get_subject_properties</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subject_property_values()">get_subject_property_values</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subject_subgraph()">get_subject_subgraph</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subjects()">get_subjects</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subjects_of_type()">get_subjects_of_type</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subjects_where()">get_subjects_where</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subjects_where_literal()">get_subjects_where_literal</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_subjects_where_resource()">get_subjects_where_resource</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#get_triples()">get_triples</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#has_literal_triple()">has_literal_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#has_resource_triple()">has_resource_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#has_triples_about()">has_triples_about</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#is_empty()">is_empty</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#make_resource_array()">make_resource_array</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#merge()">merge</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#qname_to_uri()">qname_to_uri</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#reify()">reify</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#remove_all_triples()">remove_all_triples</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#remove_literal_triple()">remove_literal_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#remove_property_values()">remove_property_values</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#remove_resource_triple()">remove_resource_triple</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#remove_triples_about()">remove_triples_about</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#replace_resource()">replace_resource</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#set_namespace_mapping()">set_namespace_mapping</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#subject_has_property()">subject_has_property</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#to_html()">to_html</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#to_json()">to_json</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#to_ntriples()">to_ntriples</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#to_rdfxml()">to_rdfxml</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#to_turtle()">to_turtle</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#update_prefix_mappings()">update_prefix_mappings</a>, <a href="../moriarty/simplegraph.html#uri_to_qname()">uri_to_qname</a></td></tr></table>

= Constructor Detail =

== ChangeSet ==

{{{
public ChangeSet(mixed a)
}}}



= Method Detail =

== addT ==

{{{
public void addT(mixed s, mixed p, mixed o, mixed o_type)
}}}

addT  adds a triple to the internal simpleIndex holding all the changesets and statements<dl>
<dt>Author:</dt>
<dd>Keith</dd>
</dl>


== has_changes ==

{{{
public void has_changes()
}}}



== toRDFXML ==

{{{
public void toRDFXML()
}}}



== to_rdfxml ==

{{{
public string to_rdfxml()
}}}

Serialise the graph to RDF/XML<dl>
<dt>Returns:</dt>
<dd>the RDF/XML version of the graph</dd>
</dl>


== Fields ==
 * [#a $a] - Serialise the graph to RDF/XML
 * [#after $after] - Serialise the graph to RDF/XML
 * [#before $before] - Serialise the graph to RDF/XML
 * [#subjectIndex $subjectIndex] - Serialise the graph to RDF/XML
= Field Detail =

== a==

{{{
public  mixed
}}}

$a</strong></code>
<div class="details">
Create a new changeset. This will calculate the required additions and removals based on before and after versions of a bounded description. The args parameter is an associative array that may have the following fields:  <ul>    <li><em>subjectOfChange</em> => a string representing the URI of the changeset's subject of change</li>    <li><em>createdDate</em> => a string representing the date of the changeset</li>    <li><em>creatorName</em> => a string representing the creator of the changeset</li>    <li><em>changeReason</em> => a string representing the reason for the changeset</li>    <li><em>after</em> => an array of triples representing the required state of the resource description after the changeset would be applied. All subjects must be the same.</li>    <li><em>before</em> => an array of triples representing the state of the resource description before the changeset is applied. All subjects must be the same.</li>    <li><em>after_rdfxml</em> => a string of RDF/XML representing the required state of the resource description after the changeset would be applied. This is parsed and used to overwrite the 'after' parameter, if any. All subjects must be the same.</li>    <li><em>before_rdfxml</em> => a string of RDF/XML representing the state of the resource description before the changeset is applied. This is parsed and used to overwrite the 'begin' parameter, if any. All subjects must be the same.</li>  </ul>  If none of 'after', 'before', 'after_rdfxml' or 'before_rdfxml' is supplied then an empty changeset is constructed. <br />  The 'after' and 'before' arrays are simple arrays where each element is a triple array with the following structure:  <ul>    <li><em>s</em> => the subject URI</li>    <li><em>p</em> => the predicate URI</li>    <li><em>o</em> => the value of the object</li>    <li><em>o_type</em> => one of 'uri', 'bnode' or 'literal'</li>    <li><em>o_lang</em> => the language of the literal if any</li>    <li><em>o_datatype</em> => the data type URI of the literal if any</li>  </ul></div>

<hr>

== after==

{{{
public  mixed
}}}

$after</strong> = array()</code>
<div class="details">
</div>

<hr>

== before==

{{{
public  mixed
}}}

$before</strong> = array()</code>
<div class="details">
</div>

<hr>

== subjectIndex==

{{{
public  mixed
}}}

$subjectIndex</strong> = array()</code>
<div class="details">
</div>

<hr>

