#summary List of classes and interfaces
#labels Featured

 * [GraphPath] - EXPERIMENTAL: Represents a path selecting nodes from a simple graph Based on http://www.w3.org/2005/04/fresnel-info/fsl
 * [AndExpr]
 * [AnyLiteralMatcher]
 * [AugmentService] - Represents a store's augment service
 * [BooleanFunction]
 * [BooleanGenerator]
 * [SimpleGraph] - Represents an RDF graph and provides some simple functions for traversing and manipulating it.
  * [ChangeSet] - Represents a changeset.
  * [NetworkResource] - Represents a simple data resource that exists on the network.
   * [FieldPredicateMap] - Represents a field/predicate map
   * [QueryProfile] - Represents a store's query profile.
   * [StoreGroup] - Represents a group of stores.
  * [StoreCollection] - Represents the collection of all platform stores.
 * [ChangeSetBatch] - Represents a batch of changesets.
 * [CompExpr]
 * [Config] - A helper class to assist with configuring a store.
 * [Contentbox] - Represents a store's contentbox
 * [Converter] - Implements FSL specific conversions
 * [CountFunction]
 * [Credentials] - Represents a username and password pair for authenticating against secure services.
 * [HttpClient]
  * [CurlHttpClient] - A CURL based http client implementation.
  * [PhpHttpClient] - A CURL based http client implementation.
 * [DataTable] - DataTable is Moriarty's implementation of the Active Record pattern for RDF data.
 * [DataTableResult]
 * [ExpFunction]
 * [FacetService] - Represents a store's facet service.
 * [Graph] - The base class for graphs in a store.
  * [Metabox] - Represents a store's metabox.
  * [PrivateGraph] - Represents a private graph in a store.
 * [HttpCache]
 * [HttpRequest] - Represents an HTTP protocol request.
 * [HttpRequestFactory] - A factory for creating instances of HttpRequests.
 * [HttpResponse] - Represents an HTTP protocol response.
 * [JobQueue] - Represents a store's job queue
 * [Labeller] - Utility class for labelling properties
 * [LiteralDtFunction]
 * [LiteralGenerator]
 * [LiteralMatcher]
 * [LiteralValueFunction]
 * [LocalNameFunction]
 * [SparqlServiceBase] - Represents the base class for various sparql services.
  * [MultiSparqlService] - Represents a store's multi sparql service
  * [SparqlService] - Represents a store's sparql service
 * [NamespaceUriFunction]
 * [NormalizeSpaceFunction]
 * [NumberGenerator]
 * [NumberMatcher]
 * [OAIService] - Represents a store's OAI-PMH service
 * [OrExpr]
 * [Path]
 * [ResourceList] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [Rollback]
 * [SelfGenerator]
 * [Snapshots]
 * [StepMatcher]
 * [Store] - Represents a platform store.
 * [StoreGroupConfig] - A helper class to assist with configuring store groups.
 * [StringLengthFunction]
 * [TypeMatcher]
 * [Union] - Represents a virtual union of multiple stores
 * [UriFunction]
 * [ValuePool] - Deprecated
 * [WildCardMatcher]


Generated by [http://phpdoctor.sourceforge.net/ PHPDoctor 2RC2]
