#sidebar Sidebar
#labels Autogenerated
#summary Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.

= Overview =

== Fields ==
 * [#description $description] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [#items $items] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [#items_per_page $items_per_page] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [#start_index $start_index] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [#title $title] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
 * [#total_results $total_results] - Represents a list of resources returned from a contentbox search.
= Field Detail =

== description==

{{{
public  string
}}}

$description</strong></code>
<div class="details">
The description of the search results</div>

<hr>

== items==

{{{
public  array
}}}

$items</strong></code>
<div class="details">
An array of the search results as a list of triples</div>

<hr>

== items_per_page==

{{{
public  int
}}}

$items_per_page</strong></code>
<div class="details">
The number of search results returned per page.</div>

<hr>

== start_index==

{{{
public  int
}}}

$start_index</strong></code>
<div class="details">
The index of the first search result in the current set of search results.</div>

<hr>

== title==

{{{
public  string
}}}

$title</strong></code>
<div class="details">
The title of the search results</div>

<hr>

== total_results==

{{{
public  int
}}}

$total_results</strong></code>
<div class="details">
The total number of results matching the search terms</div>

<hr>

